so getting back to doc strings again now for
simple functions and classes you
doc string can really just be a single
line summary in which case just included
all on one line with the quotes on the
same line you can see here obviously with my
doc string here I've got the quotes in different
lines because we got multiple lines of
text their but often you want to provide more
information then there for multi line
doc string may be more appropriate
will be more appropriate in the
circumstances so the first line of a
multi line doc string should be a
brief summary with further details
included after a blank line so can see
here we've got the brief overview of
what this class is about a blank line
and then we got more information
after that blank line now it can
be difficult to strike a balance between
being to brief and to verbose and the
doc strings for this song class are a little
bit too verbose at the moment by
themselves they are ok but the doc
string for the init method doesn't
really add anything that isn't already
included in the doc string for the class in
other words this doc string down here
doesn't really give us much more
information other than introducing a typo their
which I'll fix then it has already been specified in this class doc string and just to see in this action we
can see this a bit better by looking at one of the uses for
doc string which is providing help
now strangely IntelliJ gives a warning
about an unexpected argument to the help
function this actually cause is caused
by the doc string for help itself now I'm
gonna come back to that but for now when we
run the program after this line
type help.....
and you can see we've got this warning here unexpected argument so that
actually caused by the doc string for help
itself
now I'm gonna come back to that but for now if
you run the program just right click and
run song to make sure I'm running the right Python file and scroll up a
little bit
you can see the documentation that is for this particular class so you could see here
the doc string is used by the help function to
provide information on the song class so
by calling the help function which is part of
Python its automatically added this and
put this information in the form of
documentation which we can read
because they added this bit here data inscriptions define here but also this bit here grabbing
the information from our doc strings so close that down and the other thing we can do we can
request help on a particular method so if we go and
change line 24 here so instead of just
doing generic help for the song class so gonna
change to do just add so I'm going to get
some help for the init method so.....
what we want to do is we don't want to call the init method we want to just get
some information get some help on it so
make sure I've remove those parenthesis
as you saw me doing and if I run it again we can see now helps gonna come back and show
us the information just for the init method
itself and not for the entire class that was
their last time and the other thing you can do is you can
just print this out so I can comment out line 24
.....
so via the doc attribute if you run
that we've got to class doc string
there that is another way of accessing
information instead of using the help
function but the big difference their is
where as help will display the doc string
for all the methods as well
printing it out in this way as we just did their with the
print only gives the doc string for the object
specified which in this case is the
class so to display the doc string for the
init method then we have to specified
explicitly so if I show you what I mean
so it won't be just init method we'll have to do something like.....
....and if we run that we've got the song
init method showing their underneath the
output which was from the class so really
at this point in the courses shouldn't
be anything really surprising about the
output and if you believed on what I have
said that everything in Python is an
object then this should really be
anything surprising about the way we just access it
just in case though what I've done there is
print the doc attribute of the init method
now functions and methods in Python are
also objects so they have attributes just like
any other object so the doc string as
we have defined it for the init method here the code on line 11 through 18 the
doc string for the init method is really
too much and adds nothing as I mention to
the class doc string so I'm gonna remove it
and but I will also add it back temporarily by
assigning the string to the methods doc
attribute so I'm gonna do that I'm going
to just copy this and I'm just going to
and get rid of that for now and what I'm going to do is show you another way that we can add the documentation if
we wanted to and we can do is this way under the print I can put...
....
....so lets run that and you can see we got the class
doc string there and also the
init doc string showing so that's just an
alternate way that you can add a doc string if you
want to create it in code that way now note
that this code won't work in Python 2 in
Python 2 the doc attribute which we've
written to on line 19
its not writable on the Python 2 but that's not really a problem
because obviously you wouldn't really do
that in a real application if you gonna
provide a doc string and probably should be
included with the object as I
did originally if the code that I cut out that was originally
lines 11 from 11 onwards but this does
demonstrate that methods can have a attributes and gives you a taste of the power in Python so
in Python if you want to do it thhen you probably can that is the general philosophy even if it's not a good idea
to actually do that so lets move on now
and continue with our record collection
so the next step is to create an album
class its going to store the songs that will
make up an album so what I'm going to do is
delete the doc string code that I used to demonstrate
the doc string attribute and add a new class so basically
delete all this code from line 16 onwards which we
don't need anymore let's go ahead and
create this class album
.....
...again the convention is that extra blank line
their and....
....
...
....so that is our class album doc string so lets start writing a bit of code so we define our init method....
....
....next we want to create
this add song method but before we do that
we need to then save the track
so....
.....
....
.....so once again there's really
nothing that can be said in the doc string
for the init method that isn't covered in
the class doc string so its worth adding a note
about the add song method though so following the guidelines of pep 257 which I hope
you've read it by now the first line is a brief
summary of what the method does then the
individual arguments are documented and
you can see that's the case there that
I've done that in the add song doc string on line 41 now if an argument is optional then its a good idea to describe
what will happen if the arguments not
provided in this case the song is gonna
be added to the end of the list
the album class also uses a list to
store the songs and provides a method this
add song method add_song for
adding songs to a list and in addition
its got a filed for the artists which is a next
class and I'm gonna be adding to this
program in the next video so having this
artist object stored in the album
objects can cause problems I because the
artist class itself will also hold a list of
the artist published albums
but I'm gonna talk more about that when was seen the
artist class so lets end this video here now then
will continue on with this project in the
next video